# TATA Data Visualization Internship
Virtual internship offered by India's biggest conglomerate, TATA. The internship provided insights on leveraging data visualization tools and techniques, how to make informed business decisions by asking the right questions and finally, how to present the data  in a concise and efficient way.  

## Task One
- I was presented with an excel sheet containing the data that would later on need to be **cleaned**, **analyzed** and overall get comfortable with as I start to rationalize the key takeaways.
- My mind went to work on the 500K+ data rows and I began _filtering, sorting, using pivot tables and charts_ just to get a sense of some important giveaways in the data.
- We ended this task with me asking both the CEO & CMO some **qualitative and quantitative** questions in regards to the data, so I could get a better understanding of the executives' needs and goals, as well as get their opinions in regards to certain takeaways. (The questions have been uploded alongside the excel and tableau files.)

## Task Two
- Learned about some of the graphs, their usage and when it was best to use each one.
- Took a small applies exam and aced it.

## Task Three
- Began the Data Visualization process. Used **Tableau** in this process.
- I was given four tasks to carry out in this part. Four queries that needed to be answered from both the CEO & CMO.
- The CEO first needed to know more about the revenue specific to the year 2011. The revenue was not present in the original data but using a simple calculation of the given metrics (Quantity, Unit Price) I was able to derive the revenue and using a simple filter, I filtered the data based on Invoice Dates to only get results that were within the months of 2011 displayed in a line graph.
- Next up, the CEO needed a graphical representation of the revenue and quantity side by side for each region, he also wanted to display the top 10 results only, excluding the UK from the equation. I immediately got to work and the output was a side-by-side bar chart that displayed the CEO's queries, which will be found in the attached workbook above as well.
- You would need to create a column chart or a vertical bar chart where each bar would represent the revenue generated by the customers. You would need to add a filter to only display the top 10 customers. The customers will be identified from the field “CustomerID”. Make sure that the customers who do not have any customer IDs are excluded from the visual. Finally, sort the customers in descending order based on the total revenue generated.
- You would need to create a map chart here as the map chart would allow the CEO to view the entire map of the world and it will highlight each country and show the total number of units sold or the name of the country. You would need to filter out the United Kingdom from the data as it is not needed in this visual. Make sure that the name of the country or the total units sold is visible for each country.

## Task Four
- The last task was simple yet also complex, I finally had to present the data in a meaningful and constructive way to the CEO & CMO, through a virtual video where I wrote a refined script and began explaining thoroughly the impact of the data shared, as well as the whole process that went into finishing this project, so that they would feel more confident when the decision-making time came.
